.Dd August 9, 2017
.Dt HARDCODE-TRAY 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hardcode-tray
.Nd Fixes hardcoded tray icons
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar --apply
.Op --change-color Ar \"#COLOR #NEWCOLOR\" ...
.Op --conversion-tool Ar TOOL
.Op --theme Ar THEME
.Op --light-theme Ar THEME Ar --dark-theme Ar THEME
.Op --only Ar APP, ... Op --path Ar PATH
.Op --size Ar SIZE
.Nm
.Ar --revert
.Nm
.Ar --version
.Nm
.Ar --clear-cache
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a python utility that fetches theme icons for application tray icons and replace the hardcoded onces, usually packaged with Qt or Electron applications. The script will automatically detect your default theme, the correct icon size, the hard-coded applications, the correct icons for each indicator and fix them. All that with the possibility to revert to the original icons.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It --apply
Applies the selected THEME onto tray icons, instead of launching in interactive mode.
.It --revert
Reverts the original icons from backup instead of launching in interactive mode.
.It --change-color Ar \"#COLOR #NEWCOLOR\" ...
In THEME icon, change #COLOR to #NEWCOLOR.
.It --clear-cache
Clears the backup cache folder.
.It --conversion-tool Ar TOOL
By default, the conversion tool is detected form installed applications. The user can choose to override htis by providing a tool, where TOOL is one of {Inkscape, CairoSVG, RSVGConvert, ImageMagick, SVGExport}.
.It --dark-theme Ar THEME Ar --light-theme Ar THEME
Useful for applications with different sets of icons for light and dark themes. THEME is respectively set as the dark and light theme. Supercedes \fI--theme\fR.
.It --only Ar APP, ...
Choose to only apply given applications instead of all of them.
.It --path Ar PATH
Give an alternate application path. Use with \fI--only\fR.
.It --size SIZE
Force
.Nm
to use a certain icon size, where SIZE is one of {16,22,24}.
.It --version
Prints the version of
.Nm
.Sh FILES
.Nm
uses a JSON configuration file at ~/.config/hardcode-tray.json, is it exists. The file supports the following options:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It blacklist
List applications whose tray icons will never be patched.
.It conversion_tool
Default tool to be used. Supercedes autodetection.
.It icons
Object containing the \fItheme\fR and \fIsize\fR of the icon to be used.
.It backup_ignore
Boolean setting wether to ignore backing up the original icon.
.It scaling_factor
Widgets scaling factor, autodetected in GNOME, KDE and Cinnamon.
